**CNT 4714 – Project Four – Spring 2022**

Tomcat web-application server (server-side application).  This means that the business logic is not to be 
implemented in the DBMS via a trigger.   
The client-level servlet will handle the SQL command interface, just as the root-level servlet does, 
however, due to the restrictions on the client-level privileges, no business-logic will be implemented in 
this application. 
 
The third-tier (back-end) is the persistent MySQL database described above and is under control of the 
MySQL DBMS server.  You will create and maintain this database via the creation/population script.  
See the important note below concerning when/how to re-run this script for your final submission. 
 
References:  
Notes:    Lecture  Notes  for  MySQL  installation  and  use.    Documentation  for  MySQL  available  at: 
http://www.mysql.com.  More  information  on  JDBC  can  be  found  at: 
http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/jdbc/index.html .  More information on Tomcat can be 
found at http://tomcat.apache.org.  Lecture Notes for Servlets.    Lecture Notes for JSPs. 
 
Restrictions: 
Your source file shall begin with comments containing the following information: 
/*  Name:   
     Course: CNT 4714 – Spring 2022 – Project Four 
     Assignment title:  A Three-Tier Distributed Web-Based Application 
     Date:  April 24, 2022 
*/ 
Special Note: Due to end of semester time constraints this will be a hard deadline. 
 
Input  Specification:    The  suppliers/part/jobs/shipments  database  (named  project4)  that  is 
created/populated by the script project4dbscript.sql, is the back-end to this application.  All 
other input comes from the front-end client submitted to the application server based servlet entered as 
either queries or updates to this database.  There are two sets of commands that you are to execute against 
this  database  included  in  the  project4rootcommands.sql and 
project4clientcommands.sql available on WebCourses under Project 4.   As with Project 3, 
your client-level user will have only select privileges on the project4 database.  Also, as with 
Project  3,  your  front-end  cannot  execute  the  entire  script  at  one  time.    You’ll  need  to  execute  the 
commands in this script one at a time in your application (copy and paste!).  You can run the scripts in 
the MySQL Workbench if you’d like to compare/see the result sets for each user command.   
 
Output Specification:  All output is generated by the servlets and should appear in the user’s browser 
as a text/html page presented to the user.  All MySQL-side errors should be caught and reported to the 
user via the interface.  IMPORTANT: Be sure to re-run the project4dbscript.sql database 
creation/population script before you begin creating your screen shots for submission.  By doing so you 
will ensure that the database is in its initial state so that all update operations will produce the values we 
are expecting to see in your result outputs. Then, as with Project 3, run all commands in sequence from 
the  project4rootcommands.sql  script  file  (total  of  20  different  commands),  followed 
immediately by all command in sequence from the project4clientcommands.sql script file 
(total of 4 different commands). 
 
 
 
 
  Page 3 
Deliverables: 
(1) You should submit your entire Project4 webapp folder from Tomcat for this program.  If you 
submit the entire folder, then all of the files necessary to execute your web application will be 
included with the directory structure intact.  Submit this via WebCourses no later than 11:59pm 
Sunday April 24, 2022.   
(2) The following 20 screen shots from the project4rootcommands.sql script file must be 
submitted as part of the deliverables for this project.  (You can include the screenshots in the 
top-level of your webapps folder if you’d like, just be sure to include a note that you’ve done 
so.) 
a. Command 1 
b. Command 2A 
c. Command 2B 
d. Command 2C 
e. Command 3A 
f. Command 3B 
g. Command 3C  
h. Command 3D 
i. Command 3E 
j. Command 4 
k. Command 5A 
l. Command 5B 
m. Command 5C 
n. Command 5D 
o. Command 5E 
p. Command 6 
q. Command 7 
r. Command 8 
s. Command 9 
t. Command 10 
(3) The following 4 screenshots from the project4clientcommands.sql script file must be submitted 
as part of the deliverables for this project.  (You can include the screenshots in the top-level of 
your webapps folder if you’d like, just be sure to include a note that you’ve done so.) 
a. Command 1 
b. Command 2 
c. Command 3 
d. Command 4 
 
Additional Information:   
Be very careful when setting up the directory structures required for the web applications running under 
your server (Tomcat 10.0.16 or later).  See the course notes on servlets for the exact directory structure 
that must be developed.  Be sure that your development IDE and the JVM running under Tomcat are of 
the same vintage.  Attend/watch Q&A sessions for more information and project details. 
 
Important:  Please name your webapp: Project4.  Let the TAs know if you are doing the bonus problem 
by attaching a note to your WebCourses submission. 
